MarkDowns/Method.md, before:


# Memory-Types
There are many different types of memory, 
- Working Memory
- Sensory Memory
- Short-term Memory
- Long-term Memory

And all these have two types of info stored in them
- Episodic
- Semantic

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/types-of-memory

# Choosing-Memory-to-Store
Choosing which part of a state should be stored, the first thing that may come to mind is to store everything,
I mean it is a computer, right? While that may makes sense at first glance, it will create the problem of clutter for the AI's memory. We can still keep a log of what happened, but it will not be the main part of the
memory storing system.

Humans usually stores a few types of situations: 
- highly emotional situations
- repeating situations 
- new never seen before situations
- odd and unexpected things
- situations that can be related back to previous memories

Any situation that fits at least one of these catagories shall be saved.

# Storing-Memories
The storing and labeling of memories, the first thing that may come to mind is a sentence simularity search with a vector database. Not a bad idea, but it has a few shortcomings. Mainly, what is similar may not be what you want to retrieve. But that is a retrieval problem, or a future me's problem.

# Retriving-Memories
Future me here, or I guess, current me, maybe past me? Anyways that's not the point.
Since the human brain most likely has multiple "agents" doing different parts of being human, the point of the retrieval agent is to get the relevant information for the other agents. So the other agents have to learn to give out requests.

The retrieval agent has access to the current situation and past memories, based on these two factors, it will list the information we need for the current situation, and then we can see what info is in our working memory, to see if a retrieval is necessary.

Commit message:

added more about and just more of the keyword dictionary

MarkDowns/Method.md, after:


# Memory-Types
There are many different types of memory, 
- Working Memory
- Sensory Memory
- Short-term Memory
- Long-term Memory

And all these have two types of info stored in them
- Episodic
- Semantic 

For semantic memory, I have chosen a "keyword dictionary" solution. Very much inspired by the ["Lorebook"](https://rentry.co/SillyT_Lorebook#scope-and-purpose) concept of having keywords that when mentioned, gives an explanation of what it means. The difference between lorebooks and my keyword dictionary lies in the fact that the keyword dictionary updates itself, instead of having to be hand made.

# Episodic-Memory

For episodic memory, it it a WIP.
Below is basically all the info I have on episodic memories.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/types-of-memory

# Choosing-Memory-to-Store
Choosing which part of a state should be stored, the first thing that may come to mind is to store everything,
I mean it is a computer, right? While that may makes sense at first glance, it will create the problem of clutter for the AI's memory. We can still keep a log of what happened, but it will not be the main part of the memory storing system.

Humans usually stores a few types of situations: 
- highly emotional situations
- repeating situations 
- new never seen before situations
- odd and unexpected things
- situations that can be related back to previous memories

Any situation that fits at least one of these catagories shall be saved.

# Storing-Memories
The storing and labeling of memories, the first thing that may come to mind is a sentence simularity search with a vector database. Not a bad idea, but it has a few shortcomings. Mainly, what is similar may not be what you want to retrieve. But that is a retrieval problem, or a future me's problem.

# Retriving-Memories
Future me here, or I guess, current me, maybe past me? Anyways that's not the point.
Since the human brain most likely has multiple "agents" doing different parts of being human, the point of the retrieval agent is to get the relevant information for the other agents. So the other agents have to learn to give out requests.

The retrieval agent has access to the current situation and past memories, based on these two factors, it will list the information we need for the current situation, and then we can see what info is in our working memory, to see if a retrieval is necessary.
